.\" Man page for Branch Protection Rules
.TH BRANCH-PROTECTION-RULES 1 "December 2024" "1.0" "Branch Protection Rules Manual" 
.SH NAME
Branch Protection Rules \- Rules to protect branches in version control systems

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B branch_protection_rules
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Branch protection rules are safety measures used in version control systems to ensure the integrity of code in a repository. They help prevent unauthorized changes and maintain code quality.

.SH COMPONENTS

.TP
.B Branch Name
A branch is like a path in a park. Each path can lead to different areas. The branch name identifies the path, such as "main," where the final version of the work resides.

.TP
.B Require Pull Request Reviews Before Merging
Before adding new work to the main branch, another person must review it. This helps catch mistakes and ensures everything fits well together.

.TP
.B Require Status Checks to Pass Before Merging
Before adding new work, it must pass certain tests to ensure it is good and won't break anything. This is like checking if LEGO pieces are strong enough before adding them to the castle.

.TP
.B Include Administrators
Even team leaders must follow the same rules as everyone else. This ensures fairness and prevents special treatment.

.TP
.B Restrict Who Can Push to Matching Branches
Only specific people can make changes to the main branch, keeping it safe from accidental mess-ups.

.TP
.B Require Signed Commits
When someone adds their work, they must sign it to show responsibility. This helps everyone know who built what.

.SH IMPORTANCE
Branch protection rules help keep projects safe and organized. They ensure that all work is checked, tested, and approved before becoming part of the final project. This way, teams can collaborate effectively without worrying about mistakes.

.SH EXAMPLES
To set up branch protection rules:
1. Navigate to your repository settings.
2. Go to the "Branches" section.
3. Add a rule for the desired branch (e.g., "main").
4. Select the protection options you want to enforce.

.SH SEE ALSO
git(1), version_control_systems(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Patrick Connor Adams.
