.\" Man page for Docker Compose for Kids
.TH DOCKER-COMPOSE-KIDS 1 "December 2024" "1.0" "Docker Compose for Kids Manual" 
.SH NAME
docker-compose-kids \- Understanding Docker Compose for Kids

.SH SYNOPSIS
docker-compose-kids

.SH DESCRIPTION
Docker Compose is a tool that helps you manage multiple applications (toys) that need to work together. It allows you to set up, run, and clean up applications easily.

.SH COMPONENTS

.TP
.B Docker
Docker is like a toy box that holds applications and all the things they need to run. Each application is like a different toy, and Docker keeps them organized.

.TP
.B Docker Compose
Docker Compose is like a set of instructions that tells you how to set up all your toys (applications) together so they can play nicely.

.TP
.B docker-compose.yml
This is a recipe card that tells Docker Compose what toys (applications) to use, how to set them up, and how they should talk to each other.

.SH SECTIONS

.TP
.B Version
Specifies which version of the recipe you’re using. For example:
.nf
version: '3.8'
.fi

.TP
.B Services
Services are the different toys in your playset. Each service is a separate toy that does something special.

.TP
.B Web Service
The web service is like a castle where people can visit. It uses a special toy called Nginx to show web pages.

.TP
.B Image
Specifies which toy to use. For example, "nginx:latest" means the newest version of the Nginx toy.

.TP
.B Ports
Defines how to access the service. For example:
.nf
ports:
  - "8080:80"
.fi
This means you can access the web service through port 8080 on your computer.

.TP
.B Volumes
Specifies storage areas for the application. For example:
.nf
volumes:
  - ./html:/usr/share/nginx/html
.fi
This tells it to look in a folder called `html` on your computer.

.TP
.B Redis Service
A special toy that keeps track of things, like scores in a game.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B docker-compose up
Starts all the services defined in the docker-compose.yml file.

.TP
.B docker-compose down
Stops all running services and cleans up.

.TP
.B docker-compose logs
Displays the logs of the services, like a diary of what they have been doing.

.TP
.B docker-compose up --scale web=3
Creates multiple instances of the web service, like having three castles instead of one.

.SH EXAMPLES

To start your application, run:
.nf
docker-compose up
.fi

To stop your application, run:
.nf
docker-compose down
.fi

To see the logs, run:
.nf
docker-compose logs
.fi

To scale the web service, run:
.nf
docker-compose up --scale web=3
.fi

.SH CONCLUSION
Docker Compose helps organize and manage applications (toys) in a fun and easy way. You can set them up, run them, and clean them up whenever you want, just like playing with your favorite toys!

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Patrick Connor Adams (thaumaturgists).
