.\" Manpage for Docker Basics
.TH DOCKER-BASICS 1 "December 2024" "1.0" "Docker Basics Manual"
.SH NAME
docker-basics \- Introduction to Docker concepts for beginners

.SH DESCRIPTION
Docker is a platform that allows developers to automate the deployment of applications inside lightweight, portable containers. This manual provides an overview of the basic components of Docker, explained in simple terms.

.SH COMPONENTS

.TP
.B Containers
Containers are like toy boxes for computer programs. They keep everything a program needs—code, libraries, and tools—together in one place. Containers are lightweight and can be easily moved around, ensuring that programs run the same way on different computers.

.TP
.B Images
An image is like a recipe for a cake. It contains all the instructions and ingredients needed to create a container. When you want to make a new container, you follow the steps in the image to build it.

.TP
.B Dockerfile
A Dockerfile is a list of instructions for creating a container. It specifies what kind of base image to use, what code and libraries to include, and how to set everything up. It acts as a blueprint for building your container.

.TP
.B Docker Hub
Docker Hub is a cloud-based repository where users can find and share Docker images. It’s like a big toy store for computer programs, allowing you to download images created by others or upload your own.

.TP
.B Docker CLI (Command Line Interface)
The Docker CLI is a tool that allows you to interact with Docker using commands. Instead of using a graphical interface, you type commands to create, start, or stop containers. Common commands include:
- .B docker run: Start a container.
- .B docker ps: List running containers.
- .B docker images: List available images.

.TP
.B Docker Compose
Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container applications. It uses a YAML file to configure the services, networks, and volumes needed for your application, allowing you to set everything up with a single command.

.TP
.B Volumes
Volumes are used to persist data generated by and used by Docker containers. They act like a special shelf where important data can be stored safely, even if the container is closed. This ensures that data remains available for future use.

.TP
.B Networking
Networking in Docker allows containers to communicate with each other and the outside world. It provides different ways for containers to connect, enabling them to share information and work together effectively.

.SH CONCLUSION
Docker simplifies the process of developing, shipping, and running applications by using containerization. It helps keep everything organized, makes it easy to share with others, and allows different programs to work together smoothly.

.SH SEE ALSO
docker(1), docker-compose(1)
