.TH DOCKER-COMPOSE-YMAL 1 "December 2024" "Docker Compose Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
docker-compose-ymal \- Define and run multi-container Docker applications

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B docker-compose
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR] [\fIargs\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications using a YAML file. It allows you to manage services, networks, and volumes in a simple and efficient manner.

.SH COMPONENTS

.TP
.B Version
Specifies the version of the Docker Compose file format. Different versions may support different features.
Example:
.RS
version: '3.8'
.RE

.TP
.B Services
Defines the different containers (services) that make up your application. Each service can have various configuration options.
Example:
.RS
services:
  web:
    image: nginx:latest
.RE

.TP
.B Key Options for Services
.IP \[bu] 2
.B image
Specifies the Docker image to use for the service.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B build
Defines how to build a custom image from a Dockerfile.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B ports
Maps ports from the container to the host.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B environment
Sets environment variables for the container.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B volumes
Mounts host directories or volumes into the container.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B depends_on
Specifies dependencies between services.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B networks
Defines which networks the service should connect to.

.TP
.B Networks
Defines custom networks that services can use to communicate with each other.
Example:
.RS
networks:
  my_network:
    driver: bridge
.RE

.TP
.B Volumes
Defines named volumes that can be shared between services or persist data.
Example:
.RS
volumes:
  db_data:
.RE

.TP
.B Health Checks
Checks if a service is healthy and ready to accept requests.
Example:
.RS
healthcheck:
  test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost/"]
  interval: 30s
  timeout: 10s
  retries: 3
.RE

.TP
.B Restart Policies
Defines rules for restarting services if they stop unexpectedly.
Example:
.RS
restart: always
.RE

.TP
.B Build Arguments
Allows passing arguments to the build process.
Example:
.RS
args:
  NODE_ENV: production
.RE

.TP
.B Secrets and Configs
Manages sensitive information securely.
Example:
.RS
secrets:
  db_password:
    file: ./db_password.txt
.RE

.TP
.B Extending Services
Creates new services based on existing ones.
Example:
.RS
app1:
  extends:
    service: base_app
.RE

.TP
.B Labels
Adds metadata to services for organization and management.
Example:
.RS
labels:
  - "role=frontend"
.RE

.TP
.B Using Multiple Compose Files
Combines multiple Compose files for different environments.
Example:
.RS
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up
.RE

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B docker-compose up
Starts the services defined in the YAML file.

.TP
.B docker-compose down
Stops and removes the containers, networks, and volumes.

.TP
.B docker-compose logs
Displays logs from the services.

.TP
.B docker-compose exec
Executes a command in a running container.

.SH EXAMPLES
Example of a complete `docker-compose.yml` file:
.RS
version: '3.8'

services:
  web:
    image: nginx:latest
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    volumes:
      - ./html:/usr/share/nginx/html
    networks:
      - my_network

  app:
    build:
      context: ./app
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    depends_on:
      - db
    networks:
      - my_network

  db:
    image: postgres:latest
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: user
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    networks:
      - my_network

networks:
  my_network:
    driver: bridge

volumes:
  db_data:
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
Docker documentation: https://docs.docker.com/compose/

.SH AUTHOR
Jubilant-Adventure Docker Community
