.TH DOCKER-HUB 1 "December 2024" "Docker Hub Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
docker-hub \- Overview and repository management on Docker Hub

.SH DESCRIPTION
Docker Hub is an online platform for storing and sharing Docker images, which are packages that contain everything needed to run applications. It serves as a library where users can organize and manage their Docker images effectively.

.SH REPOSITORY
A repository is a storage space within Docker Hub where Docker images are kept. It helps users organize their applications for easy access and management.

.SH CREATING A REPOSITORY ON DOCKER HUB
Creating a repository on Docker Hub is a straightforward process. Follow these steps:

.SS 1. Log in to Docker Hub
- Visit the Docker Hub website: https://hub.docker.com/
- Click on the "Sign In" button at the top right corner and enter your username and password.

.SS 2. Access Your Dashboard
- After logging in, you will be directed to your dashboard, where you can view all your repositories.

.SS 3. Navigate to the Repositories Section
- Locate the "Repositories" section on your dashboard. This is where all your repositories are listed.

.SS 4. Create a New Repository
- Click on the "Create Repository" button or the "+" sign to initiate the creation of a new repository.

.SS 5. Fill in Repository Details
- **Repository Name**: Enter a unique name for your repository.
- **Description**: (Optional) Provide a brief description of the repository's purpose.
- **Visibility**: Choose between public (accessible to everyone) or private (accessible only to you and invited users).
- **Additional Settings**: Configure any additional options as needed.

.SS 6. Finalize Repository Creation
- Click the "Create" button to finalize the creation of your repository.

.SH AFTER CREATING A REPOSITORY
Once your repository is created, you can start uploading your Docker images. If the repository is public, you can share it with others; if private, it remains accessible only to you and those you invite.

.SH SUMMARY
Creating a repository on Docker Hub is akin to establishing a new shelf in a library for storing and sharing Docker images. By following the outlined steps, users can efficiently manage their applications and contribute to the Docker community.

.SH SEE ALSO
docker(1), docker-compose(1)
