.\" Man page for Understanding Custom Sidebars
.TH CUSTOM-SIDEBAR 1 "December 2024" "Custom Sidebar Manual"
.SH NAME
custom-sidebar \- A guide to understanding custom sidebars in wikis

.SH SYNOPSIS
custom-sidebar [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
A custom sidebar is a navigational element in a wiki that helps users find information quickly and easily. This manual explains the components of a custom sidebar and their importance.

.SH WHAT IS A CUSTOM SIDEBAR?
A custom sidebar is like a special list on the side of wiki pages that helps users find things quickly. It acts as a treasure map, guiding users through the content.

.SH WHY USE A SIDEBAR?
A sidebar is helpful because it makes it easier for people to find what they’re looking for without flipping through every page. The sidebar has several important parts:

.SH COMPONENTS OF A SIDEBAR
.TP
.B Navigation Links
These are like signposts pointing to different pages in the wiki. They save time and make it easier to find specific topics.

.TP
.B Organization
The sidebar groups similar topics together, making it easier to locate information, just like organizing toys into separate boxes.

.TP
.B Quick Access to Resources
Links to helpful websites or tools related to the project. This provides extra help or information that isn’t in the wiki.

.TP
.B Highlighting Important Information
The sidebar can display important messages, announcements, or updates, ensuring users see critical information right away.

.TP
.B Search Functionality
Some sidebars include a search box where users can type in what they’re looking for, helping them find specific information quickly.

.TP
.B Consistent User Experience
The sidebar maintains the same layout on every page, making it easier for users to navigate and understand the content.

.SH EXAMPLE OF SIDEBAR CONTENT
A typical sidebar might include:
- Links to major sections (e.g., “Getting Started” or “Documentation”).
- A table of contents for the current page.
- Links to related projects.
- Contact information for questions or support.

.SH CONCLUSION
In summary, a custom sidebar is a helpful guide that makes exploring a wiki easier. It helps users find what they need quickly, keeps information organized, and ensures important updates are not missed.

.SH SEE ALSO
Wiki documentation, navigation best practices.

.SH AUTHOR
Jubilant Adventure Team
