.\" Manpage for GitHub Wiki Setup Guide
.TH GITHUB WIKI SETUP 1 "December 2024" "1.0" "GitHub Wiki Setup Guide"
.SH NAME
GitHub Wiki Setup \- A guide to creating and managing a GitHub Wiki for project documentation.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git
.B wiki
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The GitHub Wiki Setup Guide provides a step-by-step approach to creating and maintaining a GitHub Wiki. This guide is designed for users who want to document their learning process, project structure, and other relevant information in an organized manner.

.SH SECTIONS

.TP
.B 1. Create a GitHub Repository
A GitHub repository is a storage space for your project. It holds your code, files, and notes. To create a repository, visit GitHub and click the button to create a new repository. Name it appropriately.

.TP
.B 2. Initialize the Wiki
A Wiki is a special notebook for writing down everything about your project. In your repository, click on the "Wiki" tab and create your first page, typically named "Home" or "Introduction."

.TP
.B 3. Organize Your Wiki Structure
Plan the layout of your Wiki to make it easy to find information. Suggested sections include:
- Home: Overview of the project.
- Getting Started: Setup instructions.
- Project Structure: Directory map.
- Learning Process: Notes on what you learned.
- Contributing: Guidelines for collaborators.
- FAQs: Common questions and answers.

.TP
.B 4. Create Pages
Each page in the Wiki is like a separate piece of paper. To create a new page, write its name in double brackets, e.g., `[[Page Name]]`, and click to create it.

.TP
.B 5. Document Your Learning Process
Keep a diary of your learning journey. Write about:
- New concepts and tools.
- Challenges faced and solutions found.
- Helpful resources.
- Personal reflections on your progress.

.TP
.B 6. Use Markdown Effectively
Markdown is a formatting language that helps you style your text. Use:
- `#` for headings.
- `*` or `-` for bullet points.
- Links and images can also be added.

.TP
.B 7. Collaborate and Get Feedback
Invite others to contribute to your Wiki. They can add notes or suggest changes. Use the "Discussion" feature for feedback.

.TP
.B 8. Maintain the Wiki
Regularly check and update your Wiki to keep it accurate. Create a "Changelog" to track changes over time.

.TP
.B 9. Promote Your Wiki
Share your Wiki link with others. Include it in your main project README for easy access.

.TP
.B 10. Utilize GitHub Features
Take advantage of GitHub's tools for version control and collaboration. Use issues to track improvements or new content.

.SH EXAMPLES
To create a new page in your Wiki:
1. Navigate to the Wiki section of your repository.
2. Type `[[New Page]]` and click to create it.

To format a heading in Markdown:
```
# My Heading
```

.SH AUTHOR
This guide was created to assist users in effectively using GitHub Wikis for project documentation.

.SH SEE ALSO
GitHub documentation, Markdown syntax guide.
```
