.\" Man page for Jubilant Adventure Wiki
.TH JUBILANT-ADVENTURE-WIKI 1 "December 2024" "Jubilant Adventure Wiki Manual"
.SH NAME
jubilant-adventure-wiki \- A guide to using the Jubilant Adventure Wiki on GitHub

.SH SYNOPSIS
jubilant-adventure-wiki [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The Jubilant Adventure Wiki is a collaborative platform for documenting and sharing information about your project. This manual provides an overview of how to create, edit, and organize content within the Wiki.

.SH CREATING A NEW PAGE
To create a new page, click on "Create New Page." This opens a blank page where you can give it a title and start writing.

.SH HOME
The "Home" page serves as the cover of your Wiki. It is the first thing visitors see and usually contains a welcome message and links to other important pages.

.SH WRITING CONTENT
Click "Write" to start typing your content. You can write stories, facts, or instructions here.

.SH PREVIEW
Use the "Preview" button to see how your content will look when published. This helps you check formatting before saving.

.SH EDIT MODE
Edit mode allows you to format your text using Markdown. Key components include:

.TP
.B Markdown
A lightweight markup language for formatting text.

.TP
.B Block Elements
These include paragraphs, headers, blockquotes, lists, code blocks, and horizontal rules.

.TP
.B Formatting Guidelines
- Paragraphs: Leave a blank line between blocks of text.
- Headers: Use `#` for big titles and `##` for smaller titles.
- Blockquotes: Start a line with `>`.
- Lists: Use `*`, `-`, or `+` for bullet points.
- Code Blocks: Use backticks (`` ` ``) for inline code and triple backticks (```` ``` ````) for multi-line code.
- Horizontal Rules: Use three dashes (`---`) on a new line.

.SH WELCOME MESSAGE
The welcome message greets visitors and invites them to explore the Wiki.

.SH ATTACHING FILES
You can attach files by dragging and dropping them into the editor or selecting them from your computer.

.SH EDIT MESSAGE
When saving changes, provide a brief note about what you modified.

.SH INITIAL HOME PAGE
This is the first page of your Wiki, setting the stage for all other content.

.SH ORGANIZING YOUR WIKI
To keep your Wiki organized:
- Create a Table of Contents with links to important pages.
- Use categories to group related content.
- Link between pages for easy navigation.

.SH COLLABORATING WITH OTHERS
Invite friends to help edit the Wiki. They can leave comments and track changes, allowing for collaborative editing.

.SH SAVING AND PUBLISHING
- Save your work to make changes visible to others.
- Publish changes to make them live for all visitors.

.SH FINAL TIPS
- Keep writing simple and clear.
- Use images and examples to enhance understanding.
- Be creative with formatting and content.

.SH SEE ALSO
Markdown documentation, GitHub Wiki guidelines.

.SH AUTHOR
Jubilant Adventure Wiki Team
