.\" Manpage for man
.TH MAN-THE-CJÂVRÍ 1 "December 2024" "1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
man \- format and display the manual pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBman\fR command is used to format and display the manual pages for various commands and utilities in the Unix-like operating systems. It serves as a reference guide for users to understand how to use different commands.

.SH USAGE
To use the \fBman\fR command, follow these steps:

1. **Open the Terminal**:
   The Terminal is a command-line interface where you can interact with your computer using text commands. It can be found in the Applications folder under Utilities.

2. **Type \fBman\fR**:
   To look up a command, type \fBman\fR followed by the command name. For example:
   .B man ls
   This command will display the manual page for the \fBls\fR command.

.SH WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
When you execute the command, the manual page for the specified command opens, providing the following information:

- **Description**: A brief overview of what the command does.
- **Options**: Special flags that modify the command's behavior.
- **Examples**: Sample usages of the command.

.SH NAVIGATING THE MANUAL
- Use the up and down arrow keys to scroll through the manual page.
- Press the `q` key to quit and return to the Terminal.

.SH EXTRA FEATURES
- **Search for Keywords**: To find commands related to a keyword, use:
  .B man -k <keyword>
  
- **Short Descriptions**: For a brief summary of a command, use:
  .B man -f <command>

.SH WHY IS MAN USEFUL?
The \fBman\fR command is an essential tool for learning how to use your computer effectively. It provides a comprehensive guide to the commands available, helping users to explore and utilize the full potential of their systems.

.SH SEE ALSO
Other related commands and utilities can be found in their respective manual pages.
