.\" Manpage for Windows 11 Help and Documentation
.TH WINDOWS_11_MAN 1 "December 2024" "User Manual" "Windows 11 Cjâvrí Man"
.SH NAME
windows_11_help \- Finding Help and Documentation in Windows 11

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page provides guidance on how to access help and documentation for commands and applications in Windows 11.

.SH COMMANDS AND TOOLS

.TP
.B Windows Command Prompt and PowerShell
These are command-line interfaces where users can type commands to instruct the computer.

.TP
.B help
Use this command to display a list of available commands. It is similar to asking for a list of things you can do.

.TP
.B command_name /?
To learn about a specific command, type this command. For example, `dir /?` shows information about the `dir` command, which lists files in a directory.

.TP
.B Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
WSL allows users to run a Linux environment directly on Windows. It provides access to Linux commands.

.TP
.B man
If WSL is installed, the `man` command can be used to access manual pages for other commands.

.TP
.B Installing WSL
To install WSL, follow these steps:
1. Open PowerShell as an administrator.
2. Run the command: `wsl --install`
3. After installation, open WSL to use the `man` command.

.TP
.B Third-Party Tools
These are additional programs that can be installed to provide Unix-like command-line utilities.

.TP
.B Cygwin
A large collection of GNU and Open Source tools that provide functionality similar to a Linux distribution on Windows.

.TP
.B Git Bash
Included with Git for Windows, Git Bash provides many Unix-like commands, but does not include the `man` command by default.

.TP
.B Documentation Files
Many applications come with their own documentation files (often in `.txt` or `.md` format) that can be opened with any text editor. Check the installation directory for these files.

.TP
.B Online Documentation
Official documentation for many software tools and programming languages is available online. Search for the specific tool or command for help.

.SH SUMMARY
In Windows 11, users can find help and documentation through built-in tools like Command Prompt and PowerShell, by installing WSL for Linux commands, using third-party tools, checking for documentation files, or looking online for help. Each method provides a way to access instructions and support.
